---
title: Sunday, 22 December 2019
---
Although I've been working as a Web Designer (or, more recently, and through no fault of my own, a UX Designer) for almost twenty years, I've never had much of a talent for graphic design. Unlike many of my colleagues, I didn't attend art school or study design at university; when I was freelancing, I outsourced almost all of the initial design work, preferring to handle the 'easier' aspects of the work such as the PHP, HTML, CSS and JavaScript. I was all about the production, not the inspiration and creation. Web Designer was simply the most convenient label for the niche I found myself in; I got into the web via programming and code, not through art and design.

Nowadays, of course, working for a multinational corporation in the era of the design system, there is little need for truly inventive design solutions. The problems we tackle are predictable, and understandable through research; the answers are rooted in tried and true patterns of human behaviour and methods of communication. Of course, there are a myriad large and small decisions to be made within each project, but the set of potential blocks from which to construct a solution is known, and mostly finite.

So I've never really needed to stretch myself too far outside my comfort zone. On those rare occasions when I do attempt something creatively daring, I inevitably get caught up in the left-brained minutiae of grid measurements and spacing, or the mathematical relationships between colours&mdash;unable to simply nudge things around the page until they 'feel right', or pick a few colours that 'just work'. The result is always disappointing, and I find it incredibly hard. In the space between appreciating good design and the ability to create it oneself lies an Imposter Syndrome-triggering black hole of frustration.

In 2020, though, I've decided it's about time that I do something about it. While it probably won't replace three years of studying at art school, I'm hoping that a generous handful of courses via LinkedIn Learning, Coursera's Graphic Design specialisation (offered by the [California Institute of the Arts](https://calarts.edu/)), plus a dash of regular practice, will help me quash that sinking feeling whenever someone asks me to "design something" ... and fill the yawning gap in my skillset that has haunted me for too long.
